Choice of db (#17)
SW705E19/report: sections/design/database.tex

\section{Database choice}

> The application being developed doing this project is heavily focused on scalability, it is therefore important that a database system that can handle a lot of data and which makes scalability easier is chosen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The system being developed during this project is heavily focused on scalability, it is therefore important that a database system that can handle a lot of data and which makes scalability easier is chosen.
```

> The application being developed doing this project is heavily focused on scalability, it is therefore important that a database system that can handle a lot of data and which makes scalability easier is chosen.

Reviewer: Ved ikke om det er korrekt at skrive at det er "heavily focused" på scalability. Det er vel mere bare noget vi har med i vores design overvejelser?

\\
Furthermore our application is going to handle a variety of data forms. It will store both structured data in the form of user profiles as well as unstructured data such as pictures and videos.
\\

> This means that a relational and non-relational database system both could work, making the choice more difficult.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means that both a relational and non-relational database system could work, making the choice more difficult.
```

> For some time it was considered to go with a non-relational database as such database system is often used with our frontend framework React, but since the team has more experience working with relational databases it was decided to go with this kind of database system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We considered going with a non-relational database, as such database system is often used with our frontend framework React, but since the team has more experience working with relational databases it was decided to go with this kind of database system.
```

\\

> The following databases were looked incorporates

Reviewer: Hvad prøver du at skrive her? 😺

\begin{itemize}
    \item Postgres
    \item MySQL
    \item Oracle
    \item MariaDB
    \item Microsoft SQL Server
\end{itemize}
Postgres is the most advanced opensource relational database \cite{Postgres}.
It is free and is one of the most popular databases being used\cite{databasePopularity}.
It has great documentation and a large active user base.

> Furthermore it is not only a relational database but a object-relational database which gives it support for user-defined objects, functions, operators and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Furthermore it is not only a relational database but an object-relational database which gives it support for user-defined objects, functions, operators and more.
```

It also allows storing of Json objects and can therefore be used almost akin to a non-relational database.

> Postgres is also ACID compliance meaning that a database transaction is ensured to be completed even in the event of errors or even power failures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Postgres is also ACID compliant, meaning that a database transaction is ensured to be completed even in the event of errors or even power failures.
```

\\
\\
MySQL is the most popular database used today\cite{databasePopularity}.
It is almost completely open source and has a very active community\cite{MySQL}.
MySQL has also added the functionality to act akin to a non-relational database.
MySQL is not ACID compliant.
\\
\\
Oracle is a commercial database and is quite expensive to obtain\cite{oracle}.
Furthermore you have to pay for extra features.
For these reasons it was decided against using this database.
\\
\\

> MariaDB is also a opensource relational-database\cite{MariaDB}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MariaDB is also an opensource relational-database\cite{MariaDB}.
```

Just like Postgres it is ACID compliant, can store Json objects and has good documentation.
\\
\\
Microsoft SQL Server is a commercial database system\cite{MSSQLSERVER}.

> Like Oracle it means to have access to the full system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Like Oracle, it means that it has access to the full system.
```
